JUNE 2018

I had a dream..

.. but rather sadly, it was about maint:-)

See the source code repo for more details, find it in
https://github.com/ImperialCollegeLondon/csg-mini-maint.git

This is the DoC specific config information repo.  It's stored in the public
git repo:

  https://github.com/ImperialCollegeLondon/csg-mini-maint-dcw-config-18.04.git

Start by reading the files "phase1" - which defines where to find the minimaint
source repo, and what version of Ubuntu this config repo is intended for - and
"phase2" - which contains all the rest of the configuration information.

Both files contain key: value facts, and the keys are often hierarchical, as in 

hostclass:source	file:hostclass
hostclass:file		/var/lib/maint/hostclass

The "hostclass:source" fact determines where the SOURCE of all hostclass
information is.  It's value is "file:hostclass", currently only "file:"
is supported, and therefore this fact tells minimaint that the source of
the hostclass information is the file (in this config repo) "hostclass".

Similarly, facts such as:

aptitude:packagelists		pkglists

are intended only for the aptitude maint script to access.  This fact
defines the directory (within this config repo) that contains per-hostclass
package lists.

Later down the phase2 config file, after the custom per-maint script facts,
you find the standard per-maint script runwhen and runon facts, eg:

aptitude:runwhen	boot,install,cron-15m
aptitude:runon		ALLHOSTS

This information replaces the runwhen/ and runon/ directories in each maint
script directory, separated out into the DoC specific config.

Returning to the hostclass file named in the "hostclass:source" fact,
reading that hostclass file you will see a relatively small number of
parent,child,priority hostclass records - representing a small made up
universe.  In particular, the maint hostclass HOSTDOC has been replaced
by ALLHOSTS, and a new subclass DOCHOSTS has been added which means
"this host is on 146.169, so can use NFS".  Some maint scripts only run
on DOCHOSTS.

Turning to useraccounts, and noting that the useraccounts maint script
only runs on DOCHOSTS, the phase2 config file contains the following facts:

# user accounts information
users:users			file:users/site-users
users:groups			file:users/site-groups
users:requiredgroups		users/required-groups
users:requiredrootusers		users/required-root-users
users:maxgroups			16
users:overrideshellclass	OVERRIDESHELL
users:overrideshelldir		users/overrideshell

The "users:users" fact tells the useraccounts maint script that the file
users/site-users (a plain text file, in this config repo) lists all the
users. in an idealised maximally simplified form.

Similarly, the "users:groups" fact tells maint useraccounts that the file
users/site-groups lists all the groups, also in simplified form.

As a convenience, the generators/ directory contains local utility
scripts mksiteusers and mksitegroups, direct from data in our database.
Umm, these generators shouldn't really be in this repo, as they contain
a readonly db-admin database password.

	duncan white
	June-July 2018
